README.rst, before:

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/django-storage-swift.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-storage-swift

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/blacktorn/django-storage-swift.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/blacktorn/django-storage-swift


django-storage-swift: a storage layer for OpenStack Swift
=========================================================

django-storage-swift allows Django applications to use OpenStack Swift
as a file storage layer.

Features
--------

-  Reads/writes files into/out of Swift.
-  Automatically derives the correct URL to allow files to be accessed
   through a web browser based on information returned from the
   authorisation server.

   -  Allows you to override the host, port and path as necessary.
   -  Supports the generation of temporary URLs to restrict access to
      files.

Usage
-----

You can install django-storage-swift through pip. To store your media
files on swift, add the following line to your settings.py or
local\_settings.py:

.. code:: python

    DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE='swift.storage.SwiftStorage'

To store your static files on swift, add the following line:

.. code:: python

    STATICFILES_STORAGE ='swift.storage.StaticSwiftStorage'

This will use another container.

Configuring
-----------

django-storage-swift recognises the following options.

+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Option                                       | Default        | Description                                                                                                                                        |
+==============================================+================+====================================================================================================================================================+
| ``SWIFT_AUTH_URL``                           | *Required*     | The URL for the auth server, e.g. ``http://127.0.0.1:5000/v2.0``                                                                                   |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_USERNAME``                           | *Required*     | The username to use to authenticate.                                                                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_KEY``/``SWIFT_PASSWORD``             | *Required*     | The key (password) to use to authenticate.                                                                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTH_VERSION``                       | None           | The version of the authentication protocol to use. If not auth version is defined, a version will be guessed based on auth parameters.             |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_TENANT_NAME``/``SWIFT_PROJECT_NAME`` | None           | (v2 and v3 auth) The tenant/project name to use when authenticating.                                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_TENANT_ID``/``SWIFT_PROJECT_ID``     | None           | (v2 and v3 auth) The tenant/project id to use when authenticating.                                                                                 |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_USER_DOMAIN_NAME``                   | None           | (v3 auth only) The domain name we authenticate to                                                                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_USER_DOMAIN_ID``                     | None           | (v3 auth only) The domain id we authenticate to                                                                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME``                | None           | (v3 auth only) The domain name our project is located in                                                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_PROJECT_DOMAIN_ID``                  | None           | (v3 auth only) The domain id our project is located in                                                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_CONTAINER_NAME``                     | None           | The container in which to store the files. (``DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE``)                                                                              |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_STATIC_CONTAINER_NAME``              | None           | Alternate container for storing staticfiles. (``STATICFILES_STORAGE``)                                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTO_CREATE_CONTAINER``              | False          | Should the container be created if it does not exist?                                                                                              |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTO_CREATE_CONTAINER_PUBLIC``       | False          | Set the auto created container as public on creation                                                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTO_CREATE_CONTAINER_ALLOW_ORIGIN`` | None           | Set the container's X-Container-Meta-Access-Control-Allow-Origin value, to support CORS requests.                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTO_BASE_URL``                      | True           | Query the authentication server for the base URL.                                                                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_BASE_URL``                           | None           | The base URL from which the files can be retrieved, e.g. ``http://127.0.0.1:8080/``.                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_NAME_PREFIX``                        | None           | Prefix that gets added to all filenames.                                                                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_USE_TEMP_URLS``                      | False          | Generate temporary URLs for file access (allows files to be accessed without a permissive ACL).                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_TEMP_URL_KEY``                       | None           | Temporary URL key --- see `the OpenStack documentation <http://docs.openstack.org/trunk/config-reference/content//object-storage-tempurl.html>`__. |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_TEMP_URL_DURATION``                  | ``30*60``      | How long a temporary URL remains valid, in seconds.                                                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_EXTRA_OPTIONS``                      | ``{}``         | Extra options, eg. { "endpoint\_type": "adminURL" }, which will return adminURL instead publicURL.                                                 |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_STATIC_BASE_URL``                    | None           | The base URL from which the static files can be retrieved, e.g. ``http://127.0.0.1:8080/``.                                                        |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_STATIC_NAME_PREFIX``                 | None           | Prefix that gets added to all static filenames.                                                                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_CONTENT_TYPE_FROM_FD``               | False          | Determine the files mimetypes from the actual content rather than from their filename (default).                                                   |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_FULL_LISTING``                       | False          | Ensures to get whole directory contents (by default swiftclient limits it to 10000 entries)                                                        |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+



SWIFT\_BASE\_URL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

django-swift-storage will automatically query the authentication server
for the URL where your files can be accessed, which takes the form
``http://server:port/v1/AUTH_token/``.

Sometimes you want to override the server and port (for example if
you're developing using `devstack <http://devstack.org/>`__ inside
Vagrant). This can be accomplished with ``SWIFT_BASE_URL``.

The provided value is parsed, and:

-  host and port override any automatically derived values
-  any path component is put before derived path components.

So if your auth server returns
``http://10.0.2.2:8080/v1/AUTH_012345abcd/`` and you have
``SWIFT_BASE_URL="http://127.0.0.1:8888/foo"``, the ``url`` function
will a path based on ``http://127.0.0.1:8888/foo/v1/AUTH_012345abcd/``.

Temporary URLs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Temporary URLs provide a means to grant a user permission to access a
file for a limited time only and without making the entire container
public.

Temporary URLs work as described in the Swift documentation. (The code
to generate the signatures is heavily based on their implementation.)
They require setup of a key for signing: the process is described in
`the OpenStack
documentation <http://docs.openstack.org/trunk/config-reference/content//object-storage-tempurl.html>`__.

Use
---

Once installed and configured, use of django-storage-swift should be
automatic and seamless.

You can verify that swift is indeed being used by running, inside
``python manage.py shell``:

.. code:: python

    from django.core.files.storage import default_storage
    default_storage.http_conn

The result should be ``<<swiftclient.client.Connection object ...>>``

Openstack Keystone/Identity v3
------------------------------

To authenticate with a swift installation using Keystone AUTH and the Identity v3 API, you must also specify either the domain ID or name that your user and project (tenant) belongs to.

.. code:: python

    SWIFT_AUTH_URL='https://keystoneserver/v3'
    SWIFT_AUTH_VERSION='3'
    SWIFT_USERNAME='<<USERNAME>>'
    SWIFT_KEY='<<PASSWORD>>'
    SWIFT_TENANT_NAME='<<TENANT_NAME>>'
    SWIFT_USER_DOMAIN_NAME='<<DOMAIN_NAME>>'
    SWIFT_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME='<<DOMAIN_NAME>>'

Troubleshooting
---------------

-  **I'm getting permission errors accessing my files**: If you are not
   using temporary URLs, you may need to make the container publically
   readable. See `this helpful
   discussion <http://support.rc.nectar.org.au/forum/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=272>`__.
   If you are using temporary URLs, verify that your key is set
   correctly.

Quickstart
----------

.. code:: python

    # This was executed on a VM running a SAIO, for example with
    # https://github.com/swiftstack/vagrant-swift-all-in-one

    # Create two world-readable containers
    swift post -r ".r:*" django
    swift post -r ".r:*" django-static

    # A virtualenv to keep installation separated
    virtualenv sampleenv
    source sampleenv/bin/activate
    pip install django-storage-swift
    pip install django

    # Create a sample project
    django-admin startproject sampleproj
    export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=sampleproj.settings
    cd sampleproj/

    # A few required settings, using SAIO defaults
    cat <<EOF >> sampleproj/settings.py
    DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE='swift.storage.SwiftStorage'
    STATICFILES_STORAGE ='swift.storage.StaticSwiftStorage'
    SWIFT_AUTH_URL='http://127.0.0.1:8080/auth/v1.0'
    SWIFT_USERNAME='test:tester'
    SWIFT_KEY='testing'
    SWIFT_CONTAINER_NAME='django'
    SWIFT_STATIC_CONTAINER_NAME='django-static'
    EOF

    # Create the initial DB data
    python manage.py migrate

    # This uploads static files to Swift
    python manage.py collectstatic --noinput

    # Now open http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/ in your browser
    # Static files like CSS are served by Swift
    python manage.py runserver

Commit message:

Add missing SWIFT_AUTH_TOKEN_DURATION in README (#69)

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/django-storage-swift.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/django-storage-swift

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/blacktorn/django-storage-swift.svg?branch=master
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/blacktorn/django-storage-swift


django-storage-swift: a storage layer for OpenStack Swift
=========================================================

django-storage-swift allows Django applications to use OpenStack Swift
as a file storage layer.

Features
--------

-  Reads/writes files into/out of Swift.
-  Automatically derives the correct URL to allow files to be accessed
   through a web browser based on information returned from the
   authorisation server.

   -  Allows you to override the host, port and path as necessary.
   -  Supports the generation of temporary URLs to restrict access to
      files.

Usage
-----

You can install django-storage-swift through pip. To store your media
files on swift, add the following line to your settings.py or
local\_settings.py:

.. code:: python

    DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE='swift.storage.SwiftStorage'

To store your static files on swift, add the following line:

.. code:: python

    STATICFILES_STORAGE ='swift.storage.StaticSwiftStorage'

This will use another container.

Configuring
-----------

django-storage-swift recognises the following options.

+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Option                                       | Default        | Description                                                                                                                                        |
+==============================================+================+====================================================================================================================================================+
| ``SWIFT_AUTH_URL``                           | *Required*     | The URL for the auth server, e.g. ``http://127.0.0.1:5000/v2.0``                                                                                   |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_USERNAME``                           | *Required*     | The username to use to authenticate.                                                                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_KEY``/``SWIFT_PASSWORD``             | *Required*     | The key (password) to use to authenticate.                                                                                                         |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTH_VERSION``                       | None           | The version of the authentication protocol to use. If no auth version is defined, a version will be guessed based on auth parameters.              |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_TENANT_NAME``/``SWIFT_PROJECT_NAME`` | None           | (v2 and v3 auth) The tenant/project name to use when authenticating.                                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_TENANT_ID``/``SWIFT_PROJECT_ID``     | None           | (v2 and v3 auth) The tenant/project id to use when authenticating.                                                                                 |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_USER_DOMAIN_NAME``                   | None           | (v3 auth only) The domain name we authenticate to                                                                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_USER_DOMAIN_ID``                     | None           | (v3 auth only) The domain id we authenticate to                                                                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME``                | None           | (v3 auth only) The domain name our project is located in                                                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_PROJECT_DOMAIN_ID``                  | None           | (v3 auth only) The domain id our project is located in                                                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_CONTAINER_NAME``                     | None           | The container in which to store the files. (``DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE``)                                                                              |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_STATIC_CONTAINER_NAME``              | None           | Alternate container for storing staticfiles. (``STATICFILES_STORAGE``)                                                                             |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTO_CREATE_CONTAINER``              | False          | Should the container be created if it does not exist?                                                                                              |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTO_CREATE_CONTAINER_PUBLIC``       | False          | Set the auto created container as public on creation                                                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTO_CREATE_CONTAINER_ALLOW_ORIGIN`` | None           | Set the container's X-Container-Meta-Access-Control-Allow-Origin value, to support CORS requests.                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTO_BASE_URL``                      | True           | Query the authentication server for the base URL.                                                                                                  |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_BASE_URL``                           | None           | The base URL from which the files can be retrieved, e.g. ``http://127.0.0.1:8080/``.                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_NAME_PREFIX``                        | None           | Prefix that gets added to all filenames.                                                                                                           |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_USE_TEMP_URLS``                      | False          | Generate temporary URLs for file access (allows files to be accessed without a permissive ACL).                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_TEMP_URL_KEY``                       | None           | Temporary URL key --- see `the OpenStack documentation <http://docs.openstack.org/trunk/config-reference/content//object-storage-tempurl.html>`__. |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_TEMP_URL_DURATION``                  | ``30*60``      | How long a temporary URL remains valid, in seconds.                                                                                                |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_EXTRA_OPTIONS``                      | ``{}``         | Extra options, eg. { "endpoint\_type": "adminURL" }, which will return adminURL instead publicURL.                                                 |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_STATIC_BASE_URL``                    | None           | The base URL from which the static files can be retrieved, e.g. ``http://127.0.0.1:8080/``.                                                        |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_STATIC_NAME_PREFIX``                 | None           | Prefix that gets added to all static filenames.                                                                                                    |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_CONTENT_TYPE_FROM_FD``               | False          | Determine the files mimetypes from the actual content rather than from their filename (default).                                                   |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_FULL_LISTING``                       | False          | Ensures to get whole directory contents (by default swiftclient limits it to 10000 entries)                                                        |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``SWIFT_AUTH_TOKEN_DURATION``                | ``60*60*23``   | How long a token is expected to be valid in seconds.                                                                                               |
+----------------------------------------------+----------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+




SWIFT\_BASE\_URL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

django-swift-storage will automatically query the authentication server
for the URL where your files can be accessed, which takes the form
``http://server:port/v1/AUTH_token/``.

Sometimes you want to override the server and port (for example if
you're developing using `devstack <http://devstack.org/>`__ inside
Vagrant). This can be accomplished with ``SWIFT_BASE_URL``.

The provided value is parsed, and:

-  host and port override any automatically derived values
-  any path component is put before derived path components.

So if your auth server returns
``http://10.0.2.2:8080/v1/AUTH_012345abcd/`` and you have
``SWIFT_BASE_URL="http://127.0.0.1:8888/foo"``, the ``url`` function
will a path based on ``http://127.0.0.1:8888/foo/v1/AUTH_012345abcd/``.

Temporary URLs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Temporary URLs provide a means to grant a user permission to access a
file for a limited time only and without making the entire container
public.

Temporary URLs work as described in the Swift documentation. (The code
to generate the signatures is heavily based on their implementation.)
They require setup of a key for signing: the process is described in
`the OpenStack
documentation <http://docs.openstack.org/trunk/config-reference/content//object-storage-tempurl.html>`__.

Use
---

Once installed and configured, use of django-storage-swift should be
automatic and seamless.

You can verify that swift is indeed being used by running, inside
``python manage.py shell``:

.. code:: python

    from django.core.files.storage import default_storage
    default_storage.http_conn

The result should be ``<<swiftclient.client.Connection object ...>>``

Openstack Keystone/Identity v3
------------------------------

To authenticate with a swift installation using Keystone AUTH and the Identity v3 API, you must also specify either the domain ID or name that your user and project (tenant) belongs to.

.. code:: python

    SWIFT_AUTH_URL='https://keystoneserver/v3'
    SWIFT_AUTH_VERSION='3'
    SWIFT_USERNAME='<<USERNAME>>'
    SWIFT_KEY='<<PASSWORD>>'
    SWIFT_TENANT_NAME='<<TENANT_NAME>>'
    SWIFT_USER_DOMAIN_NAME='<<DOMAIN_NAME>>'
    SWIFT_PROJECT_DOMAIN_NAME='<<DOMAIN_NAME>>'

Troubleshooting
---------------

-  **I'm getting permission errors accessing my files**: If you are not
   using temporary URLs, you may need to make the container publically
   readable. See `this helpful
   discussion <http://support.rc.nectar.org.au/forum/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=272>`__.
   If you are using temporary URLs, verify that your key is set
   correctly.

Quickstart
----------

.. code:: python

    # This was executed on a VM running a SAIO, for example with
    # https://github.com/swiftstack/vagrant-swift-all-in-one

    # Create two world-readable containers
    swift post -r ".r:*" django
    swift post -r ".r:*" django-static

    # A virtualenv to keep installation separated
    virtualenv sampleenv
    source sampleenv/bin/activate
    pip install django-storage-swift
    pip install django

    # Create a sample project
    django-admin startproject sampleproj
    export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=sampleproj.settings
    cd sampleproj/

    # A few required settings, using SAIO defaults
    cat <<EOF >> sampleproj/settings.py
    DEFAULT_FILE_STORAGE='swift.storage.SwiftStorage'
    STATICFILES_STORAGE ='swift.storage.StaticSwiftStorage'
    SWIFT_AUTH_URL='http://127.0.0.1:8080/auth/v1.0'
    SWIFT_USERNAME='test:tester'
    SWIFT_KEY='testing'
    SWIFT_CONTAINER_NAME='django'
    SWIFT_STATIC_CONTAINER_NAME='django-static'
    EOF

    # Create the initial DB data
    python manage.py migrate

    # This uploads static files to Swift
    python manage.py collectstatic --noinput

    # Now open http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/ in your browser
    # Static files like CSS are served by Swift
    python manage.py runserver
